[Music]
what is up everybody
welcome to another episode of
conversations with tom i am here with
coleman hughes coleman thank you so much
for joining me man
glad to be here so i think i first
found you on sam harris's podcast
and then you introduced me to thomas
chatterton williams who i recently had
on the show who was
amazing so thank you so much for that
intro he's
super fascinating dude and then in
researching you
i came across what you're doing as cold
man
which i was very impressed by are you
still hard into the music scene
yeah i still am i mean unfortunately
right now there is no music scene
but um at least no no music scene in
person but
yeah i'm still very much producing music
in my free time and you know to be
released at some point
do you see music as more of an in-person
thing these days
um you know thinking about the creation
of music i would think this is kind of a
cool period where if you're able to
record
you know at your apartment or something
that you could go pretty hard on the
music
um do you produce or do you just
rap produce mix wrap
all of it so for you though is it is
there something big missing and that
you're not able to perform in front of a
crowd
well yes and no performing in front of a
crowd is the most exciting thing
ever but 95
of the time that you you're working as a
musician
in my context it's alone because i'm
making beats by myself tweaking mixes or
mastering songs by myself recording
vocals by myself
so that's something i can completely do
alone and i have been during covet and
it's
i i think i and a lot of other musicians
i know
feel like it's kind of a godsend to be
in a
in a profession where you can do a lot
by yourself and you know you don't go
crazy stir crazy at home
all day you know what have comedian's
been up to
you know like their their whole
craft is like based on testing jokes out
in front of a crowd because they almost
never know which ones are going to be
good
so you know it's sad
for some folks but for me it's been all
right yeah that would be this would be a
very brutal time to be a comic
and i know oh god was it d l hugely that
ended up getting
coronavirus from touring i'm almost
certain uh i could be wrong about
um the exact person but there is a very
famous comedian who collapsed
on stage because he couldn't bear the
thought of not being outperforming and
was going to
uh he said he was like i was going to
the places that will let you
perform at a time like this and he was
like those are probably not the ideal
places
uh to be performing because they're not
taking the security measures and things
they need to be taking so right yeah but
i know i'm sure there are a lot of
people that feel
pretty hemmed up so my background i
studied filmmaking that was my whole
shtick and when i went to film school it
was like literal film and you had to go
and get it developed and you had big
heavy cameras one of my interns is a
film student
and this is her senior year now going
into her senior thesis project and all
of that in the middle of covid and she's
having to do
everything remotely and i just thought
whoa like the thought of doing my senior
year
remotely was that would be terrifying i
don't know how you pull off filmmaking
is so
inherently collaborative there are some
things i guess you could do by yourself
especially now in the age of youtube
but man it is to shoot something all by
yourself
really limits the scope of what you can
pull off um
i don't know if you feel is your music
changing
in that there's the only things you can
do now are things you can do by yourself
or was that already sort of a
super solitary endeavor it was already a
very solitary endeavor so
it really is is i can do a hundred
percent of what i would otherwise do
um but yeah with filmmaking that's
another example
you know i and i did uh i just graduated
from school and i had the last
two months or so over zoom and it was a
it was a strange experience and it made
you realize how much
of what's in the classroom is a result
of being in the classroom and how much
isn't um
and you know the truth is i had some
great lecturers
that basically maintained
a lot of what was important and valuable
about them over
uh over online but i will say if you're
not inclined to pay attention it's much
harder to to get anything out of the
class online than you might have in
person
do you know what shook down uh during
1918 i actually haven't thought about
this i've thought so many times about
okay
we're going yeah they had online classes
yeah
went well uh but how much did they use
social isolation was that part of how
they got past it
or did it just sort of burn through the
population i i don't know so much about
it
but i know that there was social
isolation
and at the very least there was you know
cancellation of large events and stuff
like that
and different cities did it to different
extents
and uh weathered the pandemic better or
worse
as a result i know there was there was
like a rebellion against
i think mask wearing in some californian
city maybe san francisco
um there was like literally a rebellion
against the law that required
um wearing masks at one point do you
know what the logic was
um people were pissed off just like
don't tell me what to do kind of thing
yeah i think so yeah that that's
interesting in terms of the humor
propensity so actually
i will say that one of the keystones of
my personality is a real problem with
authority
um i was just talking to my wife about
that in terms of what sort of driven me
through my life and
i'll say that i always talk about how
people that accomplish a lot in their
life usually have
some sort of sickness in that there's
something that pushes them
so hard to keep going even in the face
of
you know detriment to your personal
health determined to your social
well-being like there's some animus that
just keeps propelling you forward
and for me it was really two things
one my parents forcing me to do chores
and to mow the lawn
and as a kid i was just like no one is
ever going to tell me what to do when
i'm an adult
and then the other was just not being
able to um
having other people tell me what i could
have and couldn't have either because my
parents couldn't afford it or because
certainly i couldn't afford it
um and so that really when i like if i
think about sitting down on a therapist
couch and think about what drives me
what propels me forward there really is
a sense of i don't want somebody to tell
me what to do
but when i think about covid it's one of
those where the virus doesn't give a
[__] whether i have a problem with
authority or not it's like it's going to
transmit the way that it's going to
transmit and i know before we started
rolling you were saying that people in
new york aren't really thinking about
uh the pandemic right now that there are
protests and things
going on right now how much of that is
just
sort of generalized pushback against
authority how much is you know i've been
cooped up how much is a general sense of
injustice that has to be overcome like
what do you think is pushing that
forward
yeah in terms of the protest movement i
think uh well yeah there's
there's a certain type of person who who
has a problem with authority i would
probably put myself in that category as
well
and and there's a certain type of person
that takes that
to to to mean
uh who who likes the aesthetic
element of protesting to police doesn't
actually follow politics very much
um so that's that's definitely an
element in the protests
uh to what extent is it people that are
restless and want to
get out of their apartments i think that
has a huge effect on the level of
protesting
we're seeing and the
the ease was with which protests that
were local became
national and ultimately global i think
people are at
home excuse me people are at home
they're bored
they're restless they haven't been
uh you know normally they would have
gone to a concert in the summer or a
music festival
they're starved of human contact
um at least like in large crowds
and the protests are the closest thing
to a concert
that that can happen right now um
so there's definitely that and then
there's of course the substance of the
issue
police brutality um
police shootings of of unarmed civilians
so i think and and then there's there's
perhaps
the trump effect um to what extent
does what do you define as the trump
effect
just like the fact that trump makes
everything a little bit
worse with his rhetoric like if the knob
is at eight
without him he like turns it to 8.5
i do think people tend to attribute too
much to the president
um a lot of times what's happening is
the result of deeper
cultural um fault lines
that would have happened under obama but
i think trump just kind of
he says the thing to piss everyone off
just to kind of like ratchet it so the
combination of all those things
i think has i have a quick question for
you so i don't know i know that you're
not
um super drawn to politics nor am i and
i consider myself one of the most
politically ignorant human beings on the
face of the planet
um and it really is only this movement
that has drawn me into like yo i gotta
figure
the [__] like what do i think about this
um and
i love your edict of first educate
yourself which is exactly what i've been
trying to do
um instead of popping off like really
try to stop and just say okay i don't
know [__] about this so
you know how do i go about figuring it
out anyway the question i want to ask
you was
um if you have a sense of it what
president
through all history do you wish was
seeing us through this crisis
and why
um
i i guess obama
uh that that may be the boring answer
but i think
he he could say the kind of thing
he could credibly speak to the anger
people feel
about police brutality and give them a
sense that the person with the reigns
cared about this issue and understands
it and therefore it doesn't
we don't need so much to disturb the
peace
and cause violence
um and
yeah i think obama was able to hit a
note of
of resonating with racial justice issues
while at the same time
you know letting moderates know that he
wasn't a radical
that's a tough that's a very tough uh um
tight walk a tight rope to walk
i guess would be the way to say it but
um i think he did that as good as
any anyone could uh he's not without his
faults of course but
i can't imagine a recent president that
would do better can
can you oh uh this is where i will say i
have
been so um blind
to who our leaders have been and what
their rhetoric has been
so i'll say that obama was probably the
first president that i
paid attention to it was the first time
ah that's not true so bush uh
the second bush was the first one w bush
was the first one that i
i sort of was like whoa this seems to
matter like in terms of the rhetoric and
the way that people think about him
and his inability to speak i found
really distressing
and i again i didn't i didn't pay
attention to his policy so i have no
idea if that moved us forwards or
backwards
um but i was really unnerved by his
ability
or his inability to speak and
when obama got elected i was so stoked
on that
and again did not pay attention to his
policies i have no idea if that moves
forwards or backwards but
in terms of feeling good about who our
president was i felt really [__] good
i remember where i was
when it was announced that he won and it
was very surreal because jared leto was
standing right behind me at the airport
just the most random [__] thing ever
but we were all looking up at the screen
as it was announced and it was just like
there was a collective sense of euphoria
especially being in la which is
obviously a very blue
place so that felt good he was so
suave he was so he was such a
powerful orator which is something
partly because it's been something i
focus so much on my own time and
attention on the ability to communicate
ideas the ability to
get people emotionally galvanized i
think is really powerful and the ability
to do that
when you see it in somebody and i'm
particularly sort of emotionally
swayable
so if somebody is able to you know whip
people up into a frenzy with their
rhetoric i'm sort of one of the earliest
people to be swept up into that
so i was always very intoxicated by the
way that he could speak by how he made
me
feel about being an american so that was
really [__] cool
um so i will say just out of sort of
the exact reasons that you laid out i
think it's important
to have somebody who can speak credibly
like you said to the problem
i think is is the the way that we're
going to get through this
and so when all of this kicked off my
first thought was so obviously there was
tremendous pressure for me as somebody
with a platform
to say something right and so for the
first time i felt
compelled like [__] there are people
saying like yo you better say something
you better take a side
and i was like i don't know what the
[__] is going like i don't pay attention
to this [__]
obviously it was like at an 11 you could
literally with the naked eye look off
my um my balcony and see [__] la
burning so i was like okay this is
clearly
i'm now for the first time i feel like
if you don't at least acknowledge
that on the spectrum of possibilities
for the first time in my life growing up
it was
the red scare was real nuclear war
seemed like unlikely but
really possible and if you weren't at
least acknowledging its possibility you
were
blind now for the first time in my life
acknowledging civil war is on the
spectrum of possibilities
i was like [__] man like i've really
gotta dive into this so the first thing
i did was
is there a unified black voice yes or no
i had no [__] idea
so it was really going in and just
looking like what's being said
and i have an obsession with what i call
the physics of
progress and what i mean by the physics
is there is some
foundational layer that it that is in
step with the truth of the human animal
right that in in the way that the human
animal cannot be reduced anymore the way
that the brain works
is probably the most fundamental way to
say it
and so i was trying to find voices that
got to that place
where it's like asking only one question
what is my goal and making sure that
that's very clear so this this is
exactly what the the physics of progress
are you start with your goal
everything is is going to go off your
goal what what quote-unquote works or
doesn't work
will 100 be does it move you towards
your goal yes or no
so you've got a goal you've got an
informed hypothesis
on what the problem is that's stopping
you from achieving your goal
and then what levers you would have to
pull binary actions that you can take
that will either move you towards your
goal or be a failed experiment that you
can at least learn from
but to have that you have to have the
metrics that you're going to judge it
which you should know ahead of time like
okay my goal is you know i come from a
business background so i'm always
thinking about business so if my goal is
to increase revenue or drive
profitability or go into a new market
whatever
i get really [__] specific really
specific about what that goal is
but i know the metrics so profitable
dollars right dollars in
my bank account okay cool if that's
going to be the metric that i steer by
i know that ahead of time i know what my
goal is i start pulling levers as a test
and i see did it put more money in my
bank account yes or no and if there's
anywhere where that breaks down either
my goal is vague or
i don't know what binary actions i can
take so i'm just saying things like
increase my revenue by doing what or
i don't know what metric i'm using to
steer then i have a problem
so i just i went into it with that going
okay well
i know what my goal is i don't know that
my goal is universal and i think
in fact i'll i think the easiest way to
sum up my goal get sort of laughed at
and scoffed at which i
don't still don't understand why this
would be laughed at but it
is one of the things that led me to
going so deep into your world which is
um the i think you call it the humanist
approach to
race where it's like color blindness in
sam harris's words where it's like the
world i want to live in is where race is
about as meaningful as hair color
so that's my goal and then the question
just becomes how the hell did we get
there
so in terms of the initial question i
asked you about what president
certainly obama not i'm not speaking
policy because i'm ignorant to his
policies but
from just a he'd have the credibility to
say look i get it
and now physics of progress how do we
actually move forward
yeah i mean the thing about it is more
and more
people actually don't share the goal
that you just described
um people seem to want to live in a
world where
my skin color and your skin color hash
ought to have a huge
impact on how we communicate as human
beings so
if we're talking about race the fact
that
you are to me a white looking person
um that means you have to
essentially uh kowtow to me
you are beneath me in in this
conversation because
you haven't lived as a black person you
don't know what it's
like to experience anti-black racism
um to to you know if you've experienced
prejudice in the past it's been
from a position of power as a white man
these are all the arguments that are are
being made right now and that
means i have a kind of
epistemological authority over you i
know things that you can't know
and therefore uh you know
that that asymmetry should inform this
entire conversation
um i think that's
that's fundamentally wrong that's not
it gets epistemology wrong because
you know first you know two black people
can have totally different opinions and
when black people are polled
you find a a rather large diversity
opinion
diversity of opinion that isn't
reflected on
you know the new york times op-ed page
let's say or
or the the black activist class that
whose voice is often held up as
as speaking for the majority
and it should also go without saying
that
lived experience doesn't directly
correlate with true
knowledge like you know if you've been
beat up by the police
that actually doesn't mean that you know
more about the issue of police brutality
you know you do have a kind of knowledge
which is the first hand knowledge of
what it feels like
to suffer this injustice but it doesn't
necessarily imply that
you know the path forward better you
know
what aspects of policy make sense
and you know
that i think we just have to insist on
that because
ultimately we should want to live in a
world where the fact that you're
you have less melanin in your skin than
i do
doesn't put up wrote needless roadblocks
between us
um and that that i think is a
it's a goal that people are very shy
about
right now and it's a goal that's
completely compatible with
fighting racism it is the opposite of
racism
and increasingly today the modern
anti-racist movement
is not so much a rejection of white
supremacy as it is
white supremacy flipped on its head it
it's uh you know the notion that i
would have some kind of you know
authority over you in this conversation
that's not the
that's not anti-racism so much as it is
the opposite
of of the old classical
racism um so i i very much worry about
that
and i worry i worry that
many of the solutions being proposed um
the books that are on the bestsellers
list that everyone's telling you to read
right now
which will no doubt be
pumped into the heads of our children at
young ages in certain contexts
are all about telling you that race is
super duper important
if you're white you ought to follow a
different set of rules
social rules thinking rules um
then if you're black you can never
escape it no matter how hard you try
and i think that is a a horrible recipe
for a multi-ethnic society where we all
have to live together we're getting
married to each other we're becoming
friends with each other hopefully
and i don't see how that can work if
we're telling everyone that actually
that whole thing about
race just being skin deep yeah that that
that's in the past now what it is now
is to be anti-racist is to recognize
that your race is extremely important
and to live your life
based on that fact yeah
it you're getting to now what makes this
important enough for me to [__] with
because i was telling um the
the guy who is our head of talent who
books the show for me
i was telling him he happens to be black
and i was telling him some of the
um people that i was coming across in my
research specifically of you
um people like shelby steele and he goes
do you want to get shelby on the show
because he used to book for tavis smiley
and so he's very
familiar with shelby steel and i was
like christopher do you want to live on
the third rail i'm like
this [__] is crazy like of all the
people i actually
am interested at some point to have that
conversation with him just because i
find his way of thinking like
he is so willing to say [__] that is
going to piss
so many people off i admire that alone
but like
what makes you want to play
on this third rail what makes you stand
before congress
and oppose reparations like it's dude
your your rap is amazing first of all
let's start with that
i'm glad to hear by the way that your
dick is fine that is very encouraging
news
um but what why
lean into this like this is you you
could avoid this
i could avoid this my whole life why are
you
leaning into this you're becoming one of
the voices
yeah i think um by personality i've
always been the type that
you know if i thought the teacher was
wrong i wanted to say so
um and obviously a lot of times the
teacher was right
but uh that's always how i've been i've
i've been
[Music]
very quick to become frustrated when i
think something
untrue is gaining traction
because people are too afraid to
think rigorously about it
and i think what what happened is i i
didn't really
come for the topic of race so much as
the topic of race came for me
i what i felt like is you know out of
school i
i went to juilliard initially out of
high school with the intent of
being a professional jazz musician his
music
was and and is really still my first
love
um but then i sort of pivoted and went
to colombia
but long story short between the ages of
say
16 and 20.
i i was inundated with all of these
new ideas at my high school and
at columbia
the ideas that are now familiar to
anyone who's been awake since
2013 or 2014 white privilege systemic
racism
internalized depression um the whole
social justice litany and i found a lot
of the ideas very compelling at first
i uh i i sort of
did what a lot of relatively privileged
people of color do which is rewrite
their own personal history
such that they are victims
somehow in the wealthiest nation on
earth
um and i think
just basically
the process of being told i was a victim
by
authorities at school and the
the general subculture i was a part of
and that the message could not
have been louder or more clear
the process of really figuring out to
what extent
that is true of me and whether i should
adopt that identity
just was what got me into
the issue something always seemed a
little bit a little bit wrong about it
there would just be kernels of doubt
planted in my head here and there
talking to a friend who didn't quite buy
it
pointing out you know very simple facts
very simple ways of compelling ways of
viewing the world like
okay what if i'm black but your
parents were meth addicts like i
actually had a white friend that was in
that situation
and like what what deep reason
is there to view me in terms of the
group i belong to
rather than viewing me as an individual
unit
for the purpose of assigning me victim
status
right when when you go to court there's
a single person
sitting in the witness chair at a time
there isn't
a whole group of 40 million so
what deep reason is there to view the
world as groups trumping other groups in
terms of power and privilege
rather than the the more naive
in quotation marks way of viewing the
world which is
everyone is coming from somewhere
different and sure there are
group averages to speak of
but you never meet the average person
walking down the street
average is a statistical abstraction
when you're talking about flesh and
blood
you're only ever meeting people
individuals
so i i think just
you know planting you know encountering
colonels of doubt
in in the social justice worldview which
i at one point
had adopted and the constant messaging
that i was a victim
being so out of touch with not just my
life but the lives of
many people around me and and i don't
just mean that
people have never suffered
i mean that there is a
there's something deeply disempowering
about
putting putting your worst experiences
at the front at the forefront of your
conscience um you know
almost anyone who's had a rough life but
is is highly successful
what you notice about them is they don't
dwell on the ways in which
they've been harmed and
you know that there are people who have
almost all the privilege you could want
in the world
but are always thinking about
the the things that they you know the
things they didn't have
the ways in which they're harmed and um
there's a sort of
mass there's a
training on mass to get people to think
that way people of color
especially women gay people trans people
so as i said that the topic really came
for me
and i just was very curious about to
what extent all the things i'm hearing
about all the time are true
uh or useful or wise and
i think i ended up finding that a lot of
them were untrue a lot of them were
unwise
there's another part that i i want to
understand about you though
why is it important enough then that
you're going to engage and engage
as fully as you have you had everybody
if your own words can be believed was
telling you not to
testify before congress for instance um
and you still did it even even in the
middle of your testimony there are
people heckling you
in the audience which was already crazy
um but then i have to imagine outside of
that and
and look you've said that not so much in
person because people aren't sociopathic
like that
but in terms of the the sort of mob
online
people have i'm sure made your life at
times emotionally unpleasant so
why do you care enough to dedicate
yourself to this like i understand why
it's a problem for you now i want to
know about the amplitude
why is this particular issue of such
amplitude that you felt you had to get
involved
well yeah i mean i i guess i have to go
back to the same thing which is just
it is kind of a personality thing um
well i'll i'll give you my example and
you can tell me maybe i'm just totally
misreading you
um so here's why it hit
of all the so i have one core thesis in
my life the thing that i have
chosen and i do believe that it's a
choice that i've chosen to
pour myself into and make the central
meaning of my life so for a while it was
ending metabolic disease because my
family struggled with morbid obesity
and then i switched what i was going to
be focusing on
because i was exiting the company i
don't want to spend a lot of time
i believe that what you focus on what
your meaning and purpose is it's all
malleable
right so thomas chatterton williams
talks about your very identity is
malleable okay so that's a base
assumption that i have
we may have to get into the whole notion
of base assumptions in a minute
but for now so i believe identity is
malleable i have
a long story um but i've spent a lot of
time working in the inner cities both as
like a big brother
to a kid that grew up in south central
and then
as an employer and having a thousand
employees who just grew up hard as [__]
in the worst neighborhoods in southern
california that you can imagine i mean
just
the stories are [__] crazy and so
when you love somebody and you see them
struggle and this is definitely
something that's sort of been a
recurring loop in my life when
somebody i love i see struggle i can't
help but ask a question
how do we solve that problem so no
[__] what would it take so
with morbid obesity no [__] what
does it take to end metabolic disease
well you have to make food they choose
based on taste
and it happens to be good for them
because we've spent plenty of time
telling people no no just eat vegetables
and not oreos and go to the gym it
doesn't [__] work right it's just
it violates a principle of the human
condition so okay well if that doesn't
work what would work
cool make snack food that's good for
them awesome so i gave myself over to
that completely
then as i was coming out of that and
wanted to get back into storytelling
i was like what is a problem i give a
[__] enough about
to tell stories about that thing that i
could have an animus
that i could feed into and that i would
be motivated enough
at a time like this where something
happens and i find whoa
it aligns with something i care about
and now i'm willing to
actually say publicly what i think even
if that means that the mob turns on me
and for me that was people that i love
their zip code is the most
predictive um thing for their future
outcomes just where they grew up
and that to me is far more about it's
it's poverty it's not race
but it happens to align largely
certainly in where i was working with
minorities
um so when this all started to kick off
and i thought man i really want to put
my head down
my my impulse i cannot tell you how
strong it was
was to put my head down say whatever
minor thing i needed to
say to sort of hedge and let the
mob pass me by right the the board at my
store and put
you know slogans and things so that just
don't destroy me
right um and that made me feel like a
coward
i thought oh [__] so the thing i always
tell people the only thing that matters
is how you feel about yourself when
you're by yourself so it just so
happened
that putting my head down and not trying
to go find the truth because
it wasn't even that i had something to
say
it was what if i go find something
that's really inconvenient and i don't
love that idea so i want to put my head
down let it blow over that made me feel
like a coward it made me feel like i
wouldn't actually serve the people that
i love and care about and want to
actually serve and so
now it's like well okay i'm gonna have
to dive into this because it aligns with
this whole the zip code
for me i can't live in a world where
your zip code is the number one
predictor of your future success
i have chosen to not let that be okay um
and now it's collided with
what's happening now um so that's the
thing that like
i don't want to feel like a coward the
people that i love and care about like i
want to avoid this and
and maybe i'm projecting that on you um
i have this vision of you
wanting just to be this really unique
collision of a jazz musician and a
rapper
and now you've become a writer on like
deeply political is probably the word
you wouldn't use but
i would have if i didn't know your
stance on politics uh
these political issues um
so i'm just curious
is is there anything reminiscent of what
i just said into why you stepped into
this space or am i just totally
projecting myself onto you um
well that's a good question
um i guess the
the only way i can answer is just sort
of thinking about how i got into it
i was i i
i guess it just was noticing the the
the the cultural zeitgeist on the issue
of race
i thought was getting something
extremely
deeply and importantly wrong
um and
in my spare time from doing music i
would just
write you know pages and pages of text
trying to just understand for myself
where it was all coming from um
why is it that
in like the third or fourth ranked
you know ivy league college in the
wealthiest nation on earth
i'm meeting so many people that are
claiming to be
they're speaking as if they're jean
valjean from les mis
like this is this is objectively
one of the most interesting phenomena
just to to psychoanalyze to understand
what is going on here
like what the hell is going on
um and in some cases it was people who
were
from where i'm from so i knew it wasn't
that they're coming from
the hood um and i
i also i also just grew up with a very
keen sense my mother was from the south
bronx
and grew up there when that was
synonymous with
urban squalor and fires that don't get
put out
and i was always
you know aware of the distance between
that upbringing and my own
and what it actually meant to
to to live in poverty and to live
without privilege
and to you know not eat breakfast and
whatnot
and almost none of the people
feeling themselves to be victims were
from that background
um and to the ex
people you know even tried to downplay
the extent
that they were from privilege right
um and i'm i was so curious
why is that why is it that people want
to be victims of racism there's this
part
in people's souls that is nourished
by the experience of having been a
victim of racism
there there's some spiritual
hole that this is filling for people
and i think i understood that
instinctively i understood how
precisely how powerful it was and that's
what made me
so worried about where it all could go
because i there is no internal limiting
principle
to this movement it will it will never
stop
it won't stop when if and when
reparations happen
it won't stop when
you know every politician or person
is is the has the correct level of
melanin
when all of the policy proposals happen
it it is a
it's a force that has no internal
limiting principle
um and
i became worried about that because it
seemed
to not care about collateral damage it
seemed to not care so much about
facts and it was
personal because it it it bore on
my relationship with myself and with
others
was i was i a black person who
by virtue of blackness was a victim and
therefore
could can speak in certain ways and
make claims on on someone like you um
or was i coleman hughes with whatever
particular background i had
and i you know and my blackness
is only relevant to you know making
jokes and applying sunscreen
um so all of that mattered a lot and i
felt like
there was something really wrong that
almost nobody was talking about
that was the that was i think really
what
you know like if there's an elephant in
the room that that's what i felt like i
felt like there was an elephant in the
room
and there's and nobody's talking about
it
you know the emperor has no clothes
would be the better analogy
and so it's it's really crazy making to
be in a room where the emperor has no
clothes and everyone's pretending
that he does that's the type of thing
that
makes one dedicate one's life to saying
something
so that's the position i felt that i was
in
yeah it's uh the emperor has no clothes
is a really
great way of saying it and as somebody
who i don't feel like i
know what the emperor is wearing um
and that's it's been so i i am
i'm intoxicated by learning uh so coming
into this is somebody
just on the outside being like okay i've
never really
thought about this because i had a
default position
that seemed so universally true and so
obviously true to me
and that my life experience had taught
me was obviously true that
i thought it was merely that one needed
to utter the words
and that the problem i was facing was
one of people had not
encountered the idea and because they
had not encountered the idea i simply
needed to make the idea known to them so
i'll be specific
um working at quest
which is where i had i had three
thousand employees a thousand of them
grew up hard as [__]
and i thought oh i began to realize we
have a mindset problem
and i'll just i'll give it to you really
quickly so
we were growing so fast we grew by 57
000 in our first three years in
manufacturing so that's
people dude you're just people people
people people people square footage
equipment is [__] crazy it wasn't
like software
we have the same eight people that build
instagram and you sell for a billion
dollars i mean this is just
[__] people and i was having to
interview them sometimes
two and three at a time just to like get
enough people in the door and so i began
to shorthand the interview process and
one of the questions that i asked was
the magic genie question
now the magic genie question is is
predicated on my base assumption
that if i can align my selfish desires
with the employee
meaning that i can trust them to be
selfish they can trust me to be selfish
i'm going to do what's in my best
interest they're going to do what's in
their best interest and if we're both
when we're at our peak selfishness
we're pulling in the same direction then
we're going to win like because i don't
have to change their behavior they don't
have to change mine
so i wanted to know what do you really
want in life because if i can offer you
that through the job
now we're [__] in business because
we're going to be going in the same
direction
but if what you want is something i
can't offer then i want to tell you that
up front so anyway magic genie question
was
you can get one wish can't ask for more
wishes can't bring somebody back from
the dead or cure cancer it's just
something for you because i'm trying to
figure out what you actually want
and dude without exception i must ask
that question
two or three hundred times and i got the
same answer
every single time now it's a job so of
course they're going to be
going in one direction which most people
started by saying i would ask for a job
it's like no you wouldn't
right it's a magic genie job may be
shorthand for money so
i get that i was sort of leading them
down a primrose path
but ultimately every single one of them
said a million dollars
and i walked away from that going that
doesn't make [__] sense like this is
a magic genie why would you ask for a
million dollars why don't you ask for an
unimaginably large
amount of money and then i realized oh
my god for them
that is an unimaginably large amount of
money they didn't ask for a trillion
dollars or
a machine that printed money that would
always be accepted for all time by
anybody
they asked for a million dollars and i'm
like in l.a you can't buy a [__]
house for a million dollars this is
crazy
so i was like oh my god like i need only
give them
this more expansive view of what's
possible like hey
you know aim for the stars and if you
fail you you or
whatever the [__] aim for the moon and
if you fail you land in the stars
whatever that the phrase is
it's like if you're aiming so big even a
failure that is only some fraction of
that is still
far better than when your your goal is
small and so i was
so hyped and i'm telling everybody this
and i'm like i will come in early i will
stay late i will teach you anything you
want to do about entrepreneurship
anything
i will teach you how to build a
competitive nutrition company it was
just like i wanted to teach them
anything because
if they were aligned like that and it
actually did work but
it in terms of true life transformation
it only impacted about two percent of
the people
so i start getting really frustrated
with like what's
really going to have the kind of big
impact but anyway that's beside the
point my main point is this
so i thought i need to only utter the
words and this will change everybody's
life so i thought okay
what took me from scrounging in my couch
cushions to find enough change to put
gas in my car because that's where i was
in my early twenties
to building a billion dollar business
and having just extraordinary financial
success
what was it was there one thing that i
could pass on and i was like yes
the answer is to accept responsibility
for everything in my life
i was like oh my god that's so easy to
encapsulate
the first blog article i ever wrote
coleman i was so excited i was like
i'm gonna detail how if you're hit by a
drunk driver it's all your fault
now i sincerely believed that i would be
met with rose petals and cheering and
people would just be like
this is it tom thank you so much this is
amazing i'm gonna turn my life around
it's gonna be incredible
and people were so angry
and they were so upset and i was caught
so off guard
i had no like no sense of i'm literally
giving you the keys to the kingdom
i'm not even saying the world should
work this way i'm just saying it does
work this way and if you take
responsibility and say hey
my life is an exact reflection of my
choices even if that's a lie
even if it's a lie it will empower you
in a way where you will now
act in a fashion that will be so
advantageous
that even if it isn't true it will
propel you forward because it gets you
to act
as if it were true as if you could
control everything
and it will move you forward and it's
like i just i feel like if i give people
two choices hey
you can control everything or you can
control nothing
ah it's your choice but you you only get
to pick one which would you choose
now if people in and of course people
are going to say oh it's a false
dichotomy and all that and i'm like
[__] hell do i really have to argue
that point yes of course it's a false
dichotomy
i'm just saying if you're going to err
on one side
air on the side of personal
responsibility is what matters
the backlash i have gotten over that it
knows no bounds
and i i am still to this day beside
myself with surprise
that people wouldn't rather that be true
and to try and see
if that would help them
yeah you made a few few really good
points there one i just want to go back
to
what you said at the beginning which was
that they all asked for one million
dollars um i think it's a huge
one of the biggest problems with growing
up poor
is is not necessarily the lack of things
per se
um lack of material
objects but the lack the the lack of
imagination
that you grow up with that your world is
about this
this big so when my mom grew up she
didn't
she was a brilliant woman and got into
stuyvesant
but she didn't apply to college and the
reason she didn't is for no reason at
all is because she just didn't know
anyone
who had been to college i think if you
grow up
with people constantly telling you you
can be president
and you know more than more than the
rhetoric because talk is cheap if you
grow up seeing people
doing amazing things at every level of
society
um seeing people in corporate jobs
seeing people who've been to college
you grow up with all of these things
being normalized
you you failed to appreciate the extent
to which
seeing those people enabled you to think
that was possible for yourself
um and that i think that is
that's the logic behind the idea of a
role model
um which can you know it can be it can
feel like an
like nonsense advice to say oh we need
more role models
um but do you think that sounds like
nonsense advice because that sounds
super [__] powerful to me
i think i think it sounds yeah that's
that's exactly
what i think but it can it can sound
like an unactionable thing
i'm like how do you how do you form a
policy around that
but well so let's drill down on that
because i think this may and again i
want to just
really [__] stress i i don't feel
like i have deep wisdom here i feel like
i have a way of thinking
that is extraordinarily useful um what
the outcome of this line of thinking
will be
i'll speak to in three to five years
when i feel like i actually have my head
wrapped around this
but um it does not seem and this is
straight from thomas soul and i know a
lot of people just [__] debunk him
or or ignore him or um deride him
however you want to think of it
but he's so just like stats driven and
he's like look political power does not
lead to the outcomes that you want like
look at any group like forget stop
looking at it by race just look at any
group
that pursued economic well-being through
politics they all lose they all lag
behind
and it's people that pursue it and again
this is thomas soul so
he had the data to back it up i have not
memorized any of this stuff
but the the punch line seems so
self-evidently true to me
the people that pursue it through direct
economic well-being through
entrepreneurship or business
they win over and over and over over and
over and over
and it seems like
the moment right now is all defaulting
to policy
and so to me going back to the physics
of progress okay cool that seemed like a
valid experiment to run
let's try policy get get political power
change the policies and then see what
outcome right because we should know
what the metrics are that we're going to
judge success by
that experiment has been run by other
groups before now and it doesn't seem to
have
worked so why do you think people lean
so hard into policy even though the
evidence is there saying
hey that's probably not the fastest most
effective way to get the kind of
economic well-being you actually want
no i think that's the point you're
making is is so
important and deep and it is it lies at
the
you know at the foundation of my
my views on on this subject i think
it's the kind of thing that if you never
read sowell or
you know jason reilly or a few others
who've written about this
you will you'll never question your
unthinking assumption that
the way groups advance is by getting
political power and then securing
policy that is favorable to their group
which then
uplifts them that seems like too obvious
to even be
worth noticing that you believe but then
you just look at the history
you know forget people of color just
look at the history of different white
ethnic groups
and you know the irish show up at the
bottom of
every social indicator from crime
to alcoholism to poverty relative to
you know the germans say but the irish
are the ones famously dominating
politics
uh and then you see the same pattern
show up
in other countries where the groups that
that are dominating politics are the
ones at the bottom of society
and their domination of politics
ends up it insulates them against
discriminatory laws
um but it doesn't actually create wealth
uh and and then you see the groups
creating wealth today i mean
asian americans there are lots of very
poor asian american groups
in various pockets in the country but on
the average
higher incomes than white people native
asians that are born here uh have higher
wealth
than white people and they have they
don't even have enough political power
to get rid of laws that discriminate
against them
such as affirmative action for example
asians have very little political power
in this country
um and
i c can anyone even name more than
can can anyone name enough asian
politicians
to fill up one hand can the typical
person do that
no um black politicians
it's trivially easy
so i think people have a deeply flawed
model of
how groups advance
and that is that's a fundamental
a fundamental difference between the way
i think about
the world and the way the modern
anti-racist
movement thinks about the world
and i'm pretty sure that i'm on the
right side of that
i haven't seen super compelling evidence
for why it is true that
that that that you should have a
politics first view of the world
view of group advancement i haven't seen
the evidence
but i'm open to it yeah i'm the same so
my thing is i'm just obsessed with what
actually works so
in business i call it no [__] what
would it take and the whole reason of
calling it no [__] is because i
think people [__] themselves a lot
they they
get stories are so powerful so you're
you're talking to somebody who's
dedicated their life
to the power of story being able to
change one's identity
and behavior patterns ultimately all i'm
ever trying to influence is behavior
because your life is going to be an echo
of your behaviors a period
like life does not give a [__] what you
think about life only gives a [__] about
how you act right
so it's why i revolt against
uh the notion of the secret if you've
ever seen that video or heard people
talk about that where
half of the secret is amazing which is
hey
you have to believe it before you're
going to pursue it it's what i call the
only belief that matters
now the reason i call it the only belief
that matters is if you believe that your
time and energy of trying to improve
will reward you with improved skill set
then
you will go down the path of trying to
improve yourself
if you believe that your talent and
intelligence are fixed traits and
there's nothing you can do to improve
them then you won't go down that path
so it literally is that bifurcation
point from which
everything else in your life will spring
because if you believe
hey i can get better like i control it
even if the [__] system is trying to
keep me down
i can get so good they can't ignore me
and like
that to me is [__] interesting and
i'll i'll use
i'm so curious to know i never hear you
talk about um
nelson mandela and he is like
you want to talk about somebody long
before this was a question of race for
me
it was just a question of that [__]
guy is so inspiring and i'm inspired by
two things in his life
one he grew up in a time where at the
age of 14
he was brought naked before his tribe
sat on the ground splayed his legs open
and a shaman or chief
sorry a leader came up with a sharp rock
grabbed his foreskin and [__] sliced
it off and then he had to with no
anesthetic dude
and he had to yell the warriors like
credo or something
and i was like that's some [__] oh
gee take the kid out in the woods kick
his [__] teeth in
like write a passage [__] that having
read joseph campbell
really [__] influenced me and i was
like dude i
that that is some badassery on the level
of which i'm not prepared to do
that's [__] rad and then the other is
dude went to prison for 27 [__] years
and did not come out and say
like we're gonna become the oppressors
he was like look
it so i wrote a whole thing it's called
neon future and
it was subtly is the only truthful way
to say it it was subtly influenced by
having read long walk to freedom and so
it's about this it's about
people who are augmented um with
technology versus people who aren't
and obvious parallels between race and
the the main character's name is kita
says look there when you're oppressed
there are three options before you
remain oppressed
become the oppressor or find a third way
of
unity basically which is to me that
without him using those words is exactly
what i
thought of as nelson mandela saying and
so he comes out and even has people on
his protective force
as the president that were obviously
racist
and his own guard was like what are you
doing like they're going to create a
vulnerability they're going to
intentionally open you up
to violence and he was like the only way
forward is together
and that to me just made all the sense
in the world
um and when i think about
just like no [__] what would it take
to move forward
it's like look at the experiments that
have been run
stop telling yourself a narrative about
what all this is
and that ties back into part of why the
narrative takes hold
is something you didn't use these words
but i think it's what you meant
righteous indignation that moment where
you realize i'm a victim
and that fills you with this this
certainty the intoxication of certainty
of
i have been wronged and i have every
right to [__] go after somebody
that feels good man like all the times
in my life
i'm i'm my wife is quick to get to
righteous indignation
and i see the way it makes her a bulldog
and despite her she's very physically
demure
despite that she's [__] tough as
nails man
because she's so quick to be filled with
that like righteous indignation
and so i have wanted in my life
for moments of that kind of clarity and
certainty
and so any narrative that gives somebody
that can be
really powerful but no [__] will it
solve the problem
and so this is where uh you know
screaming into the wind it feels like
well i'm just like
look at the results what's your goal
what do you want are you getting
are you moving towards that so taking
someone like um tony heezy coats who who
i am
wildly ignorant to i know essentially
only because he's been involved in
comics oddly enough
which is a world i know a lot about and
then um
the speech he did with you for
reparations and i would dude i was like
he's such a good orator
like i [__] love it the vibe he's
giving me like [__] yeah we gotta rise
up and the irony is
it's only after the fact that i'm like
wait it's rise up against white people
but but because it's so like i said i'm
so
i get so moved by that [__] i'm just
like [__]
yeah like come on and so i get how if
you can
click people over into righteous
indignation you can
like really get people amped but is it
serving you
absolutely i mean righteous i think this
is um
it you know it's interesting i often
think the people who are most opposed to
something are often the people who
understand it the most
at a visceral level and understand how
powerful it is
it's not that i don't get why people
enjoy righteous indignation about race
it's that i completely get it
and i'm i'm i understand how powerful it
is
because i've been on the other side of
it i felt that feeling
um you know it is
similar to a drug in how how it makes
you feel you know if there were a drug
that could make you feel the way that
people feel
when they're listening to tahasi coates
talk about all the ways in which america
has wronged black people
um you know that that drug would be
metaphorically flying off the shelves
because it's
it's an amazingly good feeling um
there's a little bit of a toxic edge to
it
but it's it's overwhelmingly a feeling
that people
crave
so yeah but the the problem is
you know you ca it's not
it need not ever be aligned with reality
you can you can feel i mean that and the
the easiest way to see that is the fact
that white supremacists feel that same
feeling
i have to imagine right when they're
thinking about whatever it is white
supremacists think about
so that that feeling you know the nazis
felt that feeling
feeling is a human universal and you
cannot trust it
it's not to say that it's never right
often it is right and it's
there's something important about it too
because it's an impetus for change
where you know the and the the
let's say the inertia of society is to
remain at a status quo you need that
moral outrage and righteous indignation
to even really
want to change things and
change is needed sometimes um
so so how do we make sense of a feeling
that was being felt by civil
rights protesters in the early sixties
but is also
felt an emotion that is also
probably felt by white supremacists and
nazis how do we go about
trusting or mistrusting a feeling that
is so that is
so present at the best moments in
history and at the worst moments in
history
and the only way to do that
the only way to address that feeling
is to observe it
appreciate it and then very rigorously
look at
what where is this feeling pointing me
in in the direction
at this moment and is that a wise
direction to go in
after the feeling has subsided and we're
cool-headed enough
to i think we have to we have to define
wise and this like if i were to put my
finger on
the thing that scares me most about all
of this is
what outcome are you expecting and did
you actually get it
and that that's where i get super
[__] nervous because
people don't go like i so let me finish
that thought people don't go
hey i'm i'm going to get into power and
i'm going to try to make change
and then they don't go well did i make
change or not and
they don't value themselves for this
sincere attempt they only value
themselves for
the outcome and thusly the need to feel
good about themselves the psychological
immune system will kick in
and it will paint a narrative over what
they have done
that will eschew facts and and try to
look beyond that because
they may not have even though their
intentions were so beautiful and so good
they may not have actually gotten the
outcome that they wanted
and so being able to go okay cool i'm
gonna say ahead of time
here is what i'm gonna here's my goal
here's what i'm trying to achieve here's
the metrics by which i'm going to judge
that
and at the end of all this i'm just
going to look and say did the things
that i tried or hopefully even along the
way so we're just adjusting course
adjusting course adjusting course
are we actually getting where we want to
go and that's where i find that people
just fall back on rhetoric
i when i first found thomas soul i was
blown away
and really unnerved by the video that i
was looking at look like it was filmed
in the 80s
and i was like oh if he was saying
amazing [__]
40 years ago and we haven't
like this hasn't been adopted and become
the the sort of dominant way that we're
thinking about it
what the [__] like i don't that's the
part i don't know what to
do with that yeah
um it is depressing but um
you know i i i i resonate completely
with what you're saying
and i really like the way that you frame
it
um and this goes back to one thing we
were saying earlier
which is often i hear people say
you know i was really excited about the
obama presidency but then i was
i was really um
dismayed to find that after eight years
we were still struggling with the same
problems
of racism and police brutality and so
forth
and then i think to myself so why did
you exp
why do you still why haven't you updated
your world view to accommodate the fact
that obama didn't solve things
why didn't you come out of that
experience with a new
belief that presidents with a with a
you know a recalibrated sense of what a
president can do
but i think they did man i think the
recalibration went like this
um and and now i am waiting out past
what i actually understand and i hope
you will give me the grace to
to be thinking out loud right now but um
i think it went something like this oh
my god this is amazing this is going to
solve our problems dude i felt that so
palpably when he was elected it was so
exciting
and then it doesn't solve the problem
and you go i knew it man the system is
so [__] racist
that even with a black president you
can't overcome this [__]
that there is something so insidious and
so it is so
wormed its way into every [__] glance
interaction
everything every everything that
you even even a black president won't be
able to overcome it and so now you have
where literally i don't this is part of
what gives me the animus to
to to grab a hold of the third rail
and and like make my life and my wife
didn't know what that was by the way the
third rail in the subway system is the
thing that carries the electricity so if
you touch it you die
um so when i say that they're rail
that's what i mean but the
the thing that that draws me to that is
now if if that is your base assumption i
alluded to base
assumptions earlier if your base
assumption is oh the
the the very structure of
western society is such that
even a black president can't overcome
the inherent
racism you must burn the system down and
start anew
and that's what i see people acting in
accordance with that freaks me the [__]
out
because i'm all for completely doing
away with this system but only if you've
got a better one in place first
it's like the the thought of being in a
boat and being like yo our boat's
leaking so
gotta [__] sink it and then we'll
we'll figure it out after that it's like
what like that that strikes me as a very
bad idea right
yeah i think um that's a
that's exactly how i think about
dismantling the police
um so that yeah there's like the defund
idea and this
dismantle idea and strangely i find the
dismantle one makes much
more sense provided that you have
another police force that's better
to to do the job so you know this is
what happened in camden new jersey
they just got rid of the city police and
then replaced it with
a county police that was culturally
better for many reasons
and so that kind of thing you know
that's getting rid of the boat
but having a pretty good sense that you
have a better boat right next door
um you know whereas the defunding the
police makes very little sense to me
because it seems like you just want to
poke
holes in your own boat like let's just
make our boat
weaker to hurt the boat because we get
we get a a sense of pleasure out of
doing something that hurts the
institution of the police
so let's just take away some of their
money let's not ask the tough questions
about
you know is that going to lead to fewer
unarmed americans getting shot for
example
let's just hurt them in some way also
i'm thinking about second and third
order consequences it's like
all right people getting shot by the
police is [__] gnarly
like watching the videos george floyd
anybody dude it is so [__] unnerving
um you get a real sense of holy hell
um and i i have been
i've been manhandled by the police i
think that's the right way to say it
so i was once in an apartment a friend's
apartment
bang bang bang on the door talking to my
mom on the phone talking to my mom on
the phone bang bang bang on the door
like the [__] so i'm like mom hold on i
look out the people and somebody has
their finger over the people
and i'm like yeah i'm not opening the
store and they're like police open up
and i'm like yeah right man and they're
like look somebody called 9-1-1 from
that apartment i'm like no they didn't
i'm here alone
um and they're like okay and they leave
so i'm back talking to my mama phone and
three minutes later bang bang bang on
the door open this [__] door we're
gonna break it down
i'm like the [__] is going on so i go
and look out the door again and i
realize
oh nobody had their finger over it i'm
actually just seeing the other wall
because they're not standing in front of
the people
and so i'm like dude i'm not opening the
door i cannot see
who you are so i got this
and then they duck back out of the way
and like really fast i could see okay
they are wearing a uniform and my mom
goes
um or i said hey give me give me the
number i need to call and verify that
this is really the police and my mom's
freaking out
she's like absolutely not they're gonna
give you a fake number like don't open
the door
so i'm like [__] what do i do and
they're like banging on it they're like
if you don't open this [__] door
like we're gonna battering ram it down
and i'm like jesus man like this is
getting real [__] freaky
so my mom comes up the brilliant idea
because there was no chain on the door
she goes okay put the phone down put all
your weight against the door and just
open it a crack
so i'm like okay cool i'll do it and
i'll check and see if this is really the
cops
i put my weight against the door open to
crack boom they kick the [__] door in
i go flying they grab me arms behind my
back boom face down
on the uh the bar that happened to be
there
and they're like you better [__] hope
everybody in this apartment's okay
and they and i know everyone's gonna be
okay because i'm the only person and
they're
they're like searching the apartment and
they come back out and they're like man
you're [__] lucky that everybody or
you know
there's nobody here i'm like what is
happening
first order consequences you can reduce
the police brutality you can reduce
police shootings but by
defunding the police or you know
whatever the strategy is going to be
what's the second and third order
consequences do other crimes go up does
violent crime go up
robbery homicide like there are
i'm not in any way shape or form trying
to
make light of the horrifying reality of
police brutality and what it felt like
in that moment to be like
i can't stop them they're gonna do
whatever the [__] they're gonna do
and i am literally there was four of
them i think
they're going to do what the [__] they
want to do and there's nothing i can do
to stop them
and that is a really icky feeling
but it's also gnarly when it's a mob
of in fact it's probably more gnarly to
face a mob of
just normal people that are angry that
especially if they're armed and living
in america that's like a real [__]
thing
um that's more terrifying because they
feel like they're not
like anchored by anything you know at
least there's some accountability with
the police
so that's where i start going
yo we we have to really look at what's a
knock on effect that we might not be
thinking of on its face
yeah um i mean we've already seen crime
scene crime go up in in new york
homicides are way up um
i think there are ways so like on the
one hand there are ways where
less police just does lead to more crime
i think
unfortunately i think that is a true
fact about the trade-offs of
civilization
but i i do think you know there are ways
where you can have both at once
um where you can get the police out of
doing certain kinds of work
without the crime crime rate uh
rising um so i think we
we have to you know have
as you as you would say no [__] um
you know conversations about what are
the areas where we can really get the
best
of that trade-off where we're not losing
one for the other
and then at the same time we just have
to realize that there are situations
where the trade-off
just is there and we have to find
a way to live with the balance that we
can live with
i mean at the at the moment i think
there's an under
under discussed problem of homicide and
murder
um those are synonyms of course um
i can feel you preempting the uh the
youtube comments
yeah does he not know that homicide is
murder um
i mean it is it i think
as you say when you see the video of a
cop doing something horrible to someone
george floyd it is just gut-wrenching uh
and without at all minimizing that there
is
a separate problem of
people murdering other people and it's a
problem that
is very it's non-existent in most places
and then extremely existent in certain
pockets
certain corners of the country that most
people
would never live in much less even drive
through
but it's real and um
i think it should be it should be viewed
as a central problem
not as an afterthought or a way of
distracting from
a separate conversation but it should be
viewed as
you know i i i think of the analogy to
the campaign against drunk driving in
the 1980s
you had mothers against drunk driving
and just a kind of
national you know reckoning on this
issue where
people are trying to combat it
culturally
legally etc and i think
why can't we have some kind of movement
like that which is addressed to
homicide which is after all the the
leading cause of death for
black men in their 20s and it
need not be a racialized movement right
the whole point is that skin color
doesn't matter here
we have we have a huge issue and it's
uncomfortable to talk about for some
people because
the perpetrators are overwhelmingly
black as well
but to me i think all of that is a
distraction
you know it ultimately we have an issue
of life or death
and we need some kind of movement around
it that is compassionate
and at the same time fact-based
and goal-oriented because
you know we can't just we can't we've
just learned to tolerate this as a
society
and i think we we have to stop
tolerating it
yeah the fact based and goal-oriented
that to me
is the the powerful combination there
thomas chatterton williams said
something that i thought was so
profound which was we often talk about
race when what we really intend to talk
about is poverty
and i thought oh my god that that feels
true
as as as i dip my toe into this world
um that was sort of the because i was
already immersed
in something that the more i get into
this more i realized
i thought this was totally separate i
thought what we were talking about over
here is race
and those are definitely the words and
the rhetoric that we're using but as i
look at the underlying problems i
actually think we're talking about
poverty and poverty the whole notion of
your zip code should not be
the determining or the predictive factor
of your future success
i i have put at the center of my life
and and have now for the last i don't
know five or six years
so it's like that's something i'm really
[__] obsessed by and thinking about
with my particular
um interests and passions and skill set
how can i be useful to that
and that's my entire business model is
about that
and as i go into that
if we start playing the no [__] game
and say okay this is actually more a
question of poverty
because when i think about
the crime rate or the sorry homicide
being the number one killer of black men
in their 20s
if you ask a question why is that true
do you think to me it seems to lead to
the notion of honor and
i'm curious if you think that's a big
part of the underlying cause of that
that it that um poverty has created
these honor societies
yeah i i think that you know i i don't
want to say with
too much confidence that i know what the
cause is
because it it gets into it gets into a
very i think you're right that a culture
of honor
and like you killed my friend and
i'm so i'm gonna kill yours that has
been
very normal throughout human history
that's been
in a sense it's weird that we live in a
culture where that's
where most americans don't feel that way
where
if someone kills you know someone close
to me i expect the police to deal with
it even if i may have personal feelings
of anger
i do think there has always been a
tradition particularly in the american
south of you do it yourself
and you know one of the things that
seoul has persuasively argued is that
um you know black people used to live in
the south
all all of us used to be in the south 95
basically until about 1900
when when people started moving
northward so
culturally black people have roots in
the south
and in southern honor honor culture
so that that could be one contributing
factor why there's such a large racial
disparity there
well let's ask an obvious question in
terms of
whether that's a um a southern thing
or whether the ultimate punchline is
going to be poverty because
like you i don't feel like i know the
answer i have informed hypotheses in
terms of what i know about human nature
but is homicide among
whites higher in the south as well much
higher
really interesting yeah there's a huge
disparity between southern white people
and northern white people
and there always has been that's [__]
interesting um
okay very unexpected punchline which i
will
update my thinking on um actually no
wait a second so that would now let me
ask the next question
which will determine whether i actually
need to update my thinking or not
does that hold true regardless of
socioeconomic status
that's a good question and that's beyond
my
beyond my knowledge because if that is
only true at a certain level of
income disparity i'm going to say is far
more important than income so the ginny
coefficient
which says that violence happens when
there is a localized disparity so
everybody being poor is fine everybody
being rich is fine some disparity
between rich and poor is fine
but when the disparity is too great
people no longer believe that they can
cross
that chasm and when you don't have
socioeconomic mobility
then the only way to gain status for
young men who of course are trying to do
that to get access to
women is going to be through violence
right so again this is
no [__] is all about breaking things
down to um that
the the physics of what how a human is
and just thinking about that and so if
all of that is true and you have
as people's economic power goes up
their um interracial violence goes
down than one or intra
racial violence sorry is actually what i
meant it goes down
then this is a poverty thing and not
a race thing and not even necessarily a
southern thing it's that's interesting
so this is we are again we're at the
sort of edges of what i actually
understand this
this is something to to really think
through but i i'd be so curious to see
the actual
breakdown of the data on this to find
out if this is breaking on racial lines
economic lines north-south lines
um because my gut is the data will
already give us the answer that we seek
we just haven't looked at the right data
or
whoever has looked at it doesn't have a
big enough platform
yeah well then there's the there's the
problem of which
you know when you find the two things
are correlated which one is causing
which
so and you know then it gets tricky
because
often the the causal arrows going in
both directions at once so like
high crime may be caused by poverty
but poverty may also be caused by high
crime
and probably they become reciprocal at
some point it's a positive reinforcing
loop like birth
or like labor excuse me so it's like
once once labor starts
there's no unwinding it right whereas
the shift
so this was told to me by a neurosurgeon
and i'd never heard of the terms
um a positive reinforcing loop and a
negative reinforcing loop so negative is
um going from the parasympathetic
nervous system to the sympathetic right
fight-or-flight versus rest and digest
as you go into the parasympathetic you
will calm down
the sympathetic nervous system so that's
why meditation is so powerful because it
it
you can't be both like [__] freaking
out and agitated and calm at the same
time
it doesn't work they're a seesaw whereas
labor
is a re a positive reinforcing loop
where
the more you're in it the worse it gets
the more that you're moving towards just
birth is the only way to end the cycle
of labor so all the things that are
going on neurochemically and
physiologically in the body it does end
in birth every single time
um and that is interesting so i think
they get into this positive reinforcing
loop where
um either the more violent you are the
poorer you become or the poorer you are
the more violent you become and
and it just at now at this advanced
state it doesn't matter anymore
what cause what came first it only
matters how do you interrupt it
yeah exactly i think there we there's a
lot of vicious cycles that we have to
interrupt right now
another one that comes to mind is
how are we going to increase the quality
of police
forces there are a lot of bad cops
um we can disagree on how many racist
cops there are i think there are
racist cops no doubt uh i tend to think
there are fewer than than you know
the typical black lives matter protester
might think but
beside the point for here there are a
lot of bad cops
cops that are not good at their jobs
incompetent
how do we change that so one problem
is that not that many people want to
become cops to begin with
there is a small initial applicant pool
and what that means is given a certain
number of cops we literally need to
maintain a society
the typical cop is going to be of lower
quality than if there were more
applicants what is the current cultural
moment
going to do to the number and quality of
the applicant pool
i have to imagine that
the more that this mood has swept the
nation
the typical 12 year old right now is
less inclined to become a cop
than he or she was 10 years ago
because it's viewed as a lower status
thing
it you know you're you risk being
demonized even if you're
good and if you're a black person you ha
you might you might be viewed as a
sellout or a trader
which has been true for a long time but
has never been more true i think than
than it is now
so what what that means is a the type of
person that becomes a cop
now is the type of person that's
comfortable
or more comfortable with all of those
assumptions about him or her
which might attract the wrong type of
person
and there might just be fewer such
people to begin with
so in the in the medium term that might
create
more bad cops like it might degrade the
quality of the average cop
and then we might end up seeing more
police brutality
which will lead to more outrage which
will
make becoming a cop even less attractive
i don't i don't know if we're really in
that vicious cycle yet
but it seems like an obvious vicious
cycle to avoid before we get in it
no question yeah that that is
very scary i don't know like if i had a
friend come to me and say
yo i want to be a cop i'd be like you
sure like
this does not strike me as a great time
to be a cop like
man you start getting into the it's kind
of like going into the military man i
remember when
the second gulf war kicked off and i was
just like
if somebody came to me and they said you
know my kid is considering going into
the military i'd be like [__] i
i am of two minds because on the one
hand i'm like
truly thank you for your service like
anybody that goes into the military and
affords us our way of life like
i'm not even getting into whether
politically it was the right move i'm
just saying [__] like you are putting
your life on the line and thank you
um that is such an extraordinary thing
to do
but when you've got people seeking
advice from people and the only advice
they get is yet don't do that
that's where it becomes well you're not
necessarily then going to get
the ideal candidate going into the
military unless they're able to equalize
the incentives
and if you're talking simultaneously
about
defunding the police so there's going to
be less money less training all of that
and you're saying it's not prestigious
anymore it isn't like the
hey man thank you for being a cop thank
you for keeping me safe it's like [__]
you pig
middle finger getting spit on um all
cops are
bastards i think was the acronym being
thrown around
why would you do it it's like you're
you're just not
like you said unless you have a certain
temperament you're not going to go into
it
that's that's some dicey [__] yeah it
really is
i worry about that yeah that that ranks
pretty high on my
list of um concerns in terms of second
and third order consequences of like
really just trying to map out like where
where does this
go or where do we go from here um which
is actually an interesting question to
ask you directly like when you think
about
getting into this arena riding on
race riding on the emperor has no
clothes
do you see your voice as merely
being driven to ask the right questions
or
are you trying to go down a path where
you have
prescriptive actions ultimately that you
want people to take
i i guess it depends on what topic there
are certain topics where i feel like
i've thought about it and researched it
enough where i have
i have an answer in some sense
um i find it's easier to have answers to
smaller questions
than than to bigger questions obviously
um if there's some small policy issue
that i've i've gotten obsessed with and
i'm
you know i think like street lights in
in public housing reduce
crime at night by like 30 like we should
do that it's like
an easy thing and
you never think of it but like that's an
awesome
small innovation that would just help
society that's like an answer that i
have
but it's small it's not it's not small
to the victim of crime in
public housing at night but it's not the
big question
um to the big questions
i do i often don't think in terms of
solutions
uh i think and that's something i've
i've definitely gotten from reading
thomas sowell
you know there are these inherent
trade-offs in society
that are just baked in to the fabric
of reality and i
i i always am trying to get myself and
others to understand those trade-offs
and
to
to understand that you know
we will never get to zero on any of
these problems
and there are reasons for that that are
baked into human nature
and yeah by that i mean zero racism zero
murder
yeah yeah we will never get to zero
racism it
it's an unrealistic and childish
expectation
as much as i can understand why someone
would want that
and you know we will never get to zero
murder
probably so long as humans are able to
procure a weapon that can kill someone
occasionally someone is gonna kill
someone else
that doesn't mean be complacent
but what it means is
you know unless you want to be outraged
until the end of time
you have to have some way your outrage
has to be
somehow connected to reality
such that if the problem is getting
better much better
quickly that your outrage
is to some extent correlated
with the degree to which the thing is a
problem i heard somebody talk about this
and forgive me if it was you
um but i thought this was really
powerful and they were saying that
you if you think of racism as
being like a virus where it's contagious
and therefore it like with polio
it makes sense to chase it down and
truly eradicate it and there is no point
at which there are diminishing returns
because until it is
eradicated it will be re-contagious and
re-explode
and so you really have to get it down to
zero versus thinking of it as something
that isn't contagious but is individual
acts and therefore it will be
there will you reach a point of
diminishing returns where
you're so trying to clamp down it
becomes so draconian so 1984 it goes
beyond
what you can do to what you can say goes
beyond what you can say to what you can
think
and then it becomes like really
terrifying
you know orwell got it right a very long
time ago in terms of what that dystopian
future of thought control looks like
um and i thought oh that's a really
interesting
dichotomy to make because the way that
people are acting right now
is as if it's a virus and we have to
that there will be no
um punishment no diminishing returns
for going all the way to thought control
and i thought
like as grow test as racism is
and by the way and i know this is so
derided what i'm about to say people are
going to [__] hate
but it's one of those it's it seems
self-evidently true to me
as a business guy it just doesn't make
sense
and i think it was thomas soule who said
the market puts a cost on discrimination
it doesn't eliminate discrimination but
it puts a price on it
and if you look at apartheid south
africa they were actually hiring more
blacks than they legally could
because it was like well if they can do
the job better for cheaper then i'm
going to hire
them now again i'm not saying that's
good or bad i'm just saying that
when you think about running a business
the reason people
are they'll do things like that violate
a stipulation
is you you're so desperate for your
business to win like when your house is
on the line
it really does make you go like i don't
give a [__] man i don't
if i need 99 women in my business cool
i'm down like what whatever is going to
allow me to deliver the value
that i want to deliver such that i can
charge more for it than it costs me to
make because look there are scummy
business people i'm not advocating for
that
i'm just saying if if truly your
business is predicated on delivering
value to people
at a cost to you that is less than what
they're willing to pay
and working your ass off means that you
can upgrade your own
life and your amount of control and all
of that
then it's like it doesn't even make
sense
to discriminate so you just want to find
whoever's going to move you
forward so discrimination to me seems
idiotic
in that sense it's like whatever's going
to get me where i want to go like i'm
beyond open to it but if you
think of it as that sort of rapidly
spreading contagion you get the sort of
mania that we're seeing now yeah i think
um
this is a i'm glad you brought this up
because this is something that i hear
more and more nowadays which is
the idea that capitalism is racist you
have these two
two things that ostensibly are separate
one is
you know a free market system and the
other
is racial bias or hatred against groups
of people
but in in some people's minds you know
they're connected in this in this very
tightly wound way
where the more capitalist something is
the more racist it is and vice versa and
part of fighting racism
means supporting policies that curb the
free market
um so this is one of those areas where
you know people just don't so so here's
what a
like a smart college student would do in
order to test that
they would say let's look at let's
compare the soviet union
uh or let's compare east germany to west
germany
um let's compare north korea to south
korea
let's compare um you know ghana to the
ivory coast
you know similar countries that took
different economic routes with regard to
the free market
and let's see how much racism existed in
one versus the other
that way we can sort of crudely test the
hypothesis that capitalism
is linked to racism or a smart
a smart college student might say
frankly a smart high school student
might say
um let's look at over
over the course of u.s history public
institutions and
private institutions and see
how much racism existed
in those institutions government run and
private
that way we can test this idea
which is you know just a hypothesis that
capitalism is linked to racism
i've never seen anyone who makes that
claim
do it all i've seen is
folks like thomas sowell and also walter
williams
look at it empirically and find that
actually at minimum
there's no inherent link right
capitalists can be racist
um government-run entities can be racist
and there it's it's very difficult if
not impossible to predict
whether the free market will lead
someone in one direction or the other
and there's of course the point you
mentioned which is that
the market does impose a cost in in many
situations not always but
um the market tends to impose a cost on
on racial discrimination
um you know for my my favorite example
is that
you know plessy versus ferguson the
famous uh
uh court case that challenged
separate but but equal was funded by a
street car
company a jim crow transit company
that was sick of racial segregation
because it hurt their bottom line
you know they had to separate whites
from blacks in the streetcar
and that meant that if if a streetcar
was you know
mostly empty but was the black streetcar
they couldn't fill it up with white
passengers
and that was unprofitable to them were
those people racist
probably most white jim crow you know
people in jim crow south were racists
but they were also businessmen
um and so they they funded that that
that
famous civil rights uh
case and it's you know it's not widely
understood that
the free market and civil rights
directly aligned with each other in in
that particular instance
for reasons that are generalizable and
as
you point out in south africa there were
there were areas that were
officially whites only that were
majority black
because um land uh because
landlords didn't want to go broke um
so yeah in general i i you know i don't
want to be
taken to say free markets can't be
racist or always militate against racism
because
i think that's much too general a
statement it's just that
in my mind there is no inherent inherent
link
between markets and capitalism on the
one hand
and racism on the other i love what
you're saying about
a lot of the experiments that you
would want to run have actually been run
and you just need to
look at what results you get so north
korea south korea
east germany west germany that that's a
great example
and one of the things that first
struck me from shelby steele was that he
actually started with sort of a
a more aggressive like yeah overthrow
the system
sort of mentality and he was like oh my
god wait a second there actually have
been places that had these violent
revolutions
and let me see how they worked out and
so he
took a trip to africa to visit countries
that had had violent revolution to see
are they doing better than places that
had peaceful
revolutions and he was like it was
not pretty and he said that there was
rampant corruption in a lot of the
countries they had no sense of what the
way forward was
and he was like it was very eye-opening
to
just sort of realize that somebody had
run that test already and i needed only
go
look at the results for myself and i
thought wow that's so powerful like
you know where are the areas where we
can say okay cool we have a hypothesis
we need to burn this to the ground we
need to defund the police whatever
and go look at places i forget the name
of the county that you said where it was
like they actually did this well
cool like what did they do what can we
learn from that where places that have
done it that haven't had the outcome
that we want look at that
like even now i feel like we're running
a social experiment i know crime is up
in new york crime is up in l.a
if i i don't think i'm misquoting crime
is up in l.a like 250 percent
um over what exact time period i don't
know if it's 2020 versus 2019 or if it's
since the protesting and the writing
kicked off i'm not entirely sure i'd
need to look into that but
there are tests being run all the time
inadvertently or intentionally
but we have to look at the data and then
have the base assumption that there's
something to learn from that
absolutely yeah so that to me is um
i think going to be getting getting
people on the same base assumption is
going to be
pretty i think important and when i see
people colliding whether it's you and
tony heasy coates
or anybody i just want to ask okay
define your goal for me
like say it in a single sentence and
this in business i find
my big frustration and i run into this a
lot is if you say
if you ask somebody what their goal is
they'll talk for five minutes
it's like stop tell me in a single
sentence what your goal is
and people don't under they don't they
actually don't understand
that they're unclear and um oh god i
forget who said it
yeah i forget who said it but forgive me
for not having the time to write you a
short letter
right it's harder as somebody who is so
effusive when i'm thinking out loud
because i'm actually like
not thinking so much so that i can be
understood but so that i can understand
right that's a quote i forget who i'm
ripping off there but
um i've always loved that quote so when
you force people to be succinct
you force them to sort through their own
values and realize what they actually
want
so there's always two things when i see
people debating where i just want to say
give me in a single non-run-on sentence
no
no colons give me your
your goal then as you go
to what it is that you're going to do to
get to that goal
i want to ask you what your base
assumptions are it becomes very hard to
know
where to press people until you sort of
hear their plan
but as people begin to re reveal their
plan you realize oh my god you have a
base assumption now
the notion of base assumptions came to
me because one of my business partners
we would butt heads sometimes and i'd be
like
in the middle of it like thinking he's a
[__] [__] like how does he not get
this
and he's reacting to me like he is
clearly thinking tom is a [__] [__]
how does he not get this
and so one day i just stepped back and i
thought i know he's smart
when two smart people are disagreeing
like this we almost certainly have some
foundational assumption that we're
disagreeing on
and it's what in my marriage i have i
have come to call
arguing about the t meaning the cup of
tea
or what's really going on underneath
that so the biggest argument my wife and
i have ever had to this day was over a
cup of tea
and at one point like two hours into
this cup of tea argument where we're
yelling at each other
we were supposed to be going on vacation
i'm i'm literally turning around on the
freeway and driving home
because i'm like [__] this like we're
not going to be able to enjoy ourselves
i took a deep breath and i said this
isn't about the t
so what the hell is this about like what
are we actually arguing because there's
no way two sane people can be this
heightened about a cup of tea
so like what are we really saying and
once we started talking about that
and it took us a minute to actually know
what our motives were but once we could
identify oh my god like
this is my base assumption that your
behavior means this
and your base assumption is my behavior
means this but that actually that
actually isn't what i mean what i mean
is this
then it's like okay now we can start
having a rational conversation about how
we actually achieve our goals
but if we don't get to that point we'll
just keep disconnecting
yeah i think you're yeah what you're
talking about is um
there's a great book by tom sowell uh
called a conflict of visions
and the the the question he starts with
is
why is it that people seem to
reliably line up on opposite sides of
issues that seem to have nothing in
common with each other gun control
abortion taxing the rich
none of these issues climate change
these seem completely unrelated and yet
you see people line up
predictably on the same sides of them
and why is that
um and you know one reason is
because people have different basic
assumptions about how
society works and he spends the rest of
the book
laying out two fundamentally different
visions
about human society's human nature
and identifying different famous
intellectuals that
typify each one
and the result is you get to the end of
the book you know you could read the
book and not not
even know which one he was that's the
that's the style of book it is
um of course if you know the rest of
souls will work you'll know he very much
takes
one side of that but
um you know i i definitely resonate
to you know often i think about it as an
iceberg where you know the argument i'm
having with someone
is is often taking place at the tip of
an iceberg
but we have disagreements at the very
base of the iceberg
that we're not even discussing right now
but that are
producing the higher level disagreement
and ultimately if we don't reconcile
what's at the bottom of the iceberg
we're going to go on having these you
know
top level disagreements until the end of
time and just
you know wondering why we're always
disagreeing about [__] like every news
story we're taking the opposite side of
what are the odds are we brainwashed you
know i i've had this
you know with with the different people
who are smart just like
any new story that's controversial we're
coming at it from different different
angles so it's not about the news story
and we're both smart what is it it's
it is i think having a
a different picture a different starting
expectation
um from humans
and human society yeah i'm gonna have to
read that book because uh
that that is so true speaking about the
sort of fundamental way that we come at
something
do you ever think that you would have
more impact
by leaning into your rap career than
taking a very intellectual approach
which i guess i just revealed my base
assumption which is
one is sort of steeped in emotion a cool
uh
a way to inject ideas
um with going through the limbic centers
of the brain instead of the rational
centers of the brain
uh what do you think i think it would be
so much more difficult for you to do it
because to cut through the noise
and to know that you were um hitting the
moment
where your style is right
to the culture so that they would
elevate you as a musician
i think is is going to be far harder
versus your your true and authentic
stance
as an intellectual one you make me angry
because you're you are so much smarter
than i am
and i people think i'm being humble when
i say things like that but what
what i mean is i have a definition about
intelligence which is the ability to
process raw data quickly
people confuse my ability to speak
quickly with my ability to think quickly
and i promise you i
unfortunately do not think very quickly
which is why you're never going to see
me in public debates and things like
that because i'd have to be like [__]
yeah let me go think about that
i'm prone to being swayed by emotion and
only later having to sit down and be
like okay i know to run this through the
physics of progress
and so i can get to a usable conclusion
but it often takes me time
so when i think about how uniquely
positioned you are as an intellectual i
think you will ultimately
you will get reinforcement for that that
you might struggle for on the rap side
um but having actually gone pretty hard
on your music you have a unique voice
there and i think there is
i would be really sad to see you abandon
that
um but it would be weird to watch the
public grapple
with you as an intellectual and as a
rapper because you're exploring
very different parts of the human
condition
and you're this is so funny i'm very
easy to make sound crazy so i stopped
doing
print interviews because if you extract
extract
any one sentence from my part of the
discussion today
you can make me sound like a [__]
lunatic i speak with like a lot of
hyperbole and a lot of energy
and so if you abstract that i i have
seen it happen where i look
crazy i heard somebody talking about you
as
the person speaking in opposition of
reparations
and they they said only things about you
that were true
and they made you sound like the worst
conceivable
candidate they're like this guy's a
[__] soundcloud rapper with a song
called my dick works fine
it's like like it was so funny to hear
them say it because i had listened to
the music
and i was like but the music's [__]
insightful the music is good it's
[__] good
music and as an intellectual he's
amazing he he triggers a level of
insecurity in me that i don't even like
to be honest about
like so but there is this
there it's limbic and logic and your
ability to speak to both
one will almost certainly be rewarded
more than the other and one isn't
respected on the other side it's very
hard
it's like when dave chappelle said do we
really give a [__] what
ja rule thinks about i forget what he's
talking about it's [__] hilarious a
bit right
exactly and but at the same time there's
nothing about being a rapper
that stops gel rule from being
incredibly insightful
right i i am utterly blown away by
jay-z as a social commentator right
listening to his music i have been
profoundly moved by and as a lyricist
he's [__] incredible
um but yet we have a hard time
letting one person be both yeah so
without
i don't like revealing too much of what
i'm going to do in the future i don't
like talking about stuff i just like
doing it but
um you know i'm going to run the
experiment and we'll see how it
how it goes i i take all of your points
are good and they're they're things i i
think about all the time
you know there's a certain person that
isn't swayed by logic and there's a
certain person that isn't swayed by
limbic
and ultimately you know everyone
the typical person has a balance of both
of these
in their brain and there's some people
that are more extreme in one direction
and
and more extreme than the other um
and a lot of you know there are whole
you know whole domains of society that
operate more in one space than the other
and they don't always see each other
or care about each other and that's
always something that's
bothered me because
i think they're both important they both
matter
um and i
want to contribute to both of them and i
will
so you know we'll see we'll see
to what extent i'm accepted
ultimately you only live once and
you know you can either just do
things that you know will be accepted
and then
die having limited your
you know your options in that way or you
can say [__] it and do what you
actually want to do and
let the chips fall where they're made
where they may i think that
that's absolutely a no-brainer to me
yeah i i find myself in in a
similar-ish situation i'm way more
behind the scenes as a filmmaker
and i think my team this has always been
sort of a weird disconnect for them but
i don't view myself as a ceo in terms of
what is my identity my identity is
an artist like i think of myself as a
filmmaker and i only got into business
so i could control the resources so i
could control the art
and when i think about like i think
about comics
a lot man and it is
most people think of me as um
an influencer is probably the word they
would use i really hackle at that
or they may think of me as a
motivational person that's maybe even
worse for me
but i think about it it's modes of
impact and life experiences taught me
that what you and i are doing right now
will affect
very meaningfully about two percent of
the people that
the the broad um public so not obviously
people self-select if they're already
following you they've already
put themselves into a very rarefied
group but the
sort of broad world i'll ballpark a dead
about two percent of the people will
change their life
based on something they hear you say and
it's [__] amazing to have that kind
of impact
but when i think about shaping a culture
which is ultimately what i'm trying to
do
that leads me to storytelling and so
it's my first love
it's the you know you only live once and
let the chips fall where they may it's
like
i want to tell stories i am i am at my
most lit up
when i'm by myself and i'm writing
and but writing a story like finding a
way to speak through imagery and
characterization and human flaws and
foibles like
that and and quite frankly learning
story structure and being like [__] if
you time this right you bring these
threads together like there's something
in the human mind
that makes that [__] incredibly powerful
like all of that
is i just find so so so
cool yeah so absolutely
on your on your rap career um one i
highly highly highly encourage people to
go check your music out
um coldman c-o-l-d-m-a-n i assume you're
still using that
the music is i thought it would be
more you playing with the same ideas
and it was that you do in your
intellectual life and it was really
interesting to
see you playing with something different
um do you have like a core thesis to
your lyrics or is it you're just sort of
channeling emotion and
it's all intuitive
i'm hoping if i i leave the silence long
enough you'll you'll say more
well i mean i don't know what rat what
like writing is like for other people
but it's just like
as i said it's completely intuitive it's
like you know i
i just have some words running through
my head and it feels right over this
beat
and this beat is this particular mood
and it moves me to rap about a
particular subject
that might have to do with my career as
an intellectual and a writer and it
might not
and i don't yeah go ahead do you think
about the element of cool
in hip-hop culture at all um
yeah i guess i guess i do i mean i think
whatever you write has to be cool
or else what's the point like it has it
like i don't there's a kind of there's a
swagger
that is inherent to rap
and i would also say jazz where
you know a great musician jazz musician
or rapper
will say something or play something in
such a way
that it just communicates the coolness
of it
just inherent in the way that it's
that that the music is articulated do
you play
jazz trombone yes so believe it or not i
played jazz trombone
wow for four years i i don't i cannot
tell you the last time i met somebody
that was a trombone player full stop
um the bad news is that because i was so
bad at it i
really and i i think there's something
about jazz as i perceive it that i
fundamentally do not understand
so even though i was in jazz band for my
entire high school career i never
enjoyed it i didn't understand it i
don't know how to
improvise well i never understood the
relationship between math and music and
i never got math anyway like whatever
if i got an extra helping of anything it
was certainly verbal ability
i feel that that may have come at the
expense of mathematical ability
so i enjoyed pep band a lot that was
really fun i enjoy
music a great deal but because there's
some collision of
ability and it's triggering insecurity
in me
that i just i could never fully get into
jazz band i just felt like a fish out of
water
um i got i tried to get into felonious
monk one of my
best friends still to this day was so
big into jazz
and i really wanted to like it partly as
a way to connect with him
but i could just never i don't know
there's something about it that i
fundamentally doesn't land for me
felonious monk is a hard one to get into
if you're not already into jazz i would
i would find his music is um
angular and jerky and
unconventional even within jazz
like it i'll call it straight a rhythmic
i was like i can't yeah
this like a lot of times instead of just
like playing a chord so you hear the
harmony he'll like suggest the chord
which is precisely the kind of thing you
can only appreciate if you're already if
you've already been to exposed to like
the more mainstream versions of that
same song
so yeah i definitely wouldn't i i can
definitely see it it'd be hard to get
into
what is it about jazz you've referred to
jazz as your first love
many times um what is it about jazz over
say hip-hop
that is your first love was it just
the order of the encounter yeah the the
order of loving it
i i was into hip-hop when i was
11 or 12 but i wasn't like into it
like i i liked listening to it every day
on my ipod
i would listen to hip hop and classical
music a lot but the first thing i fell
in love with to the point where i was
like
trying to figure out how it worked for
hours every day was jess
that's interesting so ah god i imagine
this is a nearly impossible question to
answer
but how does it work like what are the
things that make something jazz
jazz is like a language it's like
learning chinese
um and almost any
it's almost a perfect parallel it's just
a language that takes place in the
medium of pitches
instead of words so they're like
there's grammar um
it takes approximately the same time
uh to learn takes like a few years and
the more you're immersed in it the
quicker you learn it
and once you learn it
there's a difference between someone who
speaks incredibly well and someone who
speaks just proficiently
um and there are people that speak like
no one else they're
inimitable so it's it's really just a
a a language that takes place in the
medium of of harmony and melody rather
than
words and sentences so do you have a
timeline
for i know you don't like to um talk
about what you're doing in the future
but do you have a timeline for the next
album
um soon
it has some of it already been recorded
yes all right these are these are uh
very simple statements which i can
respect
um dude well i'll be super eager to
watch
what you do in that world i hope that
you can um translate
some of the ideas to that limbic space
you're [__] such an interesting voice
um
and knowing that music is the thing that
you've gone harder on
than necessarily the intellectual stuff
is is very intriguing so it'll be
interesting to see you
chase them both with uh much a plum so
thank you for coming on the show today
dude thank you for being a voice
out there at this point that just seems
so metered and so
willing to be swayed um focused on data
it's rad i'm super glad that i found you
and the people that you've introduced me
to i'm beyond grateful for so
thank you much thank you so much this
has been a real pleasure
awesome man all right everybody if you
haven't check this man out
uh his stuff is amazing his he has a
podcast
also called conversations with coleman
obviously uh
it's [__] amazing uh definitely look
him up on spotify or soundcloud you will
find him
uh and until next time my friends be
legendary take care
in any event the reason why my dad named
before him
was because um you know he said he felt
that he had a very tough life and that
um
and and that we often name our children
after
great men and wealthy men and important
men but he wanted to
name me after somebody um
who didn't have that kind of prestige he
wanted to name me after somebody that
maybe if i wore his name i would i would
i would bring honor to that name